#summary How data flows around the system

Data is ingested into Fedora using SWORD, edited using XForms, manipulated and cross-walked using XSLT transformations, parsed by metadata extractors, and exported to an OAI-PMH server and a search engine.

The automated flow of data through the system is driven by a set of events. Fedora emits notifications of these events, and a set of event-handlers receive these notifications and perform processing in response.

==Events==

<table border="1">
<thead>
<tr valign="top">
<th>Event name</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Tasks triggered by event</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr valign="top">
<td>Package Ingested</td>
<td>A package containing data and initial metadata from booking system has been ingested.</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>mint and attach PID</li>
<li>extract technical metadata</li>
<li>convert booking system metadata to editable form</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="top">
<td>Metadata Updated</td>
<td>Metadata has been updated either by:<ul><li>direct data entry using a form,</li><li>the automated conversion of metadata ingested from the booking system, or</li><li>automated extraction from data files.</li></ul></td>
<td>Update the Solr index and OAI-PMH provider of RIF-CS.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="top">
<td>Data Uploaded</td>
<td>New data files have been uploaded to an existing record.</td>
<td>Extract technical metadata</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

==Event Handlers==

<table border="1">
 <thead>
  <tr valign="top">
   <th>Handler Name</th>
   <th>Events Triggering this Handler</th>
   <th>Tasks Performed</th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
  <tr valign="top">
   <td>Ingest Handler</td>
   <td><ul><li>Package Ingested</li></ul></td>
   <td><ul><li>mint and attach PID</li><li>convert booking system metadata to editable form</li></ul></td>
  </tr>
  <tr valign="top">
   <td>IONTOF Data File Update Handler</td>
   <td><ul><li>Package Ingested</li><li>Data Uploaded</li></ul></td>
   <td><ul><li>Extract technical metadata</li></ul></td>
  </tr>
  <tr valign="top">
   <td>VAMAS Data File Update Handler</td>
   <td><ul><li>Package Ingested</li><li>Data Uploaded</li></ul></td>
   <td><ul><li>Extract technical metadata</li></ul></td>
  </tr>
  <tr valign="top">
   <td>Metadata Update Handler</td>
   <td><ul><li>Metadata Updated</li></ul></td>
   <td><ul><li>Update the Solr index and OAI-PMH provider of RIF-CS.</li></ul></td>
  </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>