#summary Notes on the installation of Fedora Commons to Tomcat on andsdb-server

= Introduction =

Fedora Commons is a repository system which we are using to store RIF-CS and other objects and Metadata.

= Prerequisites =

  * Packages:
   * Apache (httpd)
   * Tomcat6 (tomcat6)
   * MySQL (mysql, mysql-server)
   * Java (java, java-sdk both @1.6+)

  * Other changes
   * User ands-shared (or equiv) should contain the apache and tomcat users, as well as any developers working on the system

= Details =

 * got Fedora Commons jar installer 
  * ( fcrepo-installer-3.4.2.jar @ /home/ands-shared/ )
 * Need to add Envvars to tomcat (in this case, /etc/profile to share these envvars with all users. This is probably not correct procedure except with regards to JAVA_HOME).
  * JAVA_HOME 
  * FEDORA_HOME (e.g. /ands/fedora)
  * PATH (add $FEDORA_HOME/server/bin, $FEDORA_HOME/client/bin and $JAVA_HOME/bin. )
  * CATALINA_HOME (=/usr/share/tomcat6, or your tomcat install location)
  * CLASSPATH (e.g. /usr/share/java:/etc/alternatives/javac:/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.6.0-openjdk-1.6.0.0.x86_64/bin:/usr/share/java/tomcat6:$PATH)

 * modified mysql database -  why can't the installer handle this?
  * set root passwords for localhost and hostname
  * ran mysql_secure_install to remove demo db & user
  * added fedora user 
   * `create user fedora with password ********`
  * added fedora3 database
   * `create database fedora3`
  * added authority database 
   * `create database authority`
  * Gave relevant permissions over these dbs to fedora user. For example:
   * `use fedora3`
   * `grant all on * to fedora`

 NOTE: there were some issues with our install and java versions. RSUS-LTU locally listed both 1.5 and openjdk 1.6, but up2date-local installed only 1.5 by default. The following commands were used to install the newer versions:
 * `yum install java-1.6.0-openjdk.x86_64`
 * `yum install java-1.6.0-openjdk-devel.x86_64`
 * `yum install java-1.6.0-openjdk-javadoc.x86_64` 

 * ran installer (./java -jar fcrepo-installer-3.4.2.jar)

{{{
ri.enabled=true
messaging.enabled=true
apia.auth.required=false
database.jdbcDriverClass=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
ssl.available=false
database.jdbcURL=jdbc\:mysql\://localhost/fedora3?useUnicode\=true&amp;characterEncoding\=UTF-8&amp;autoReconnect\=true
messaging.uri=vm\:(broker\:(tcp\://localhost\:61616))
database.password=<password>
database.mysql.driver=included
database.username=fedora
fesl.authz.enabled=false
tomcat.shutdown.port=8005
deploy.local.services=false
xacml.enabled=true
database.mysql.jdbcDriverClass=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
tomcat.http.port=8080
fedora.serverHost=localhost
database=mysql
database.driver=included
fedora.serverContext=fedora
llstore.type=akubra-fs
tomcat.home=/usr/share/tomcat6
fesl.authn.enabled=true
fedora.home=/ands/fedora
database.mysql.jdbcURL=jdbc\:mysql\://localhost/fedora3?useUnicode\=true&amp;characterEncoding\=UTF-8&amp;autoReconnect\=true
install.type=custom
servlet.engine=existingTomcat
fedora.admin.pass=<password>
}}}

 NOTE: Was missing /usr/share/tomcat6/common/lib/mysql-connector-java-5.1.6.jar for JDBC connector. Located and added manually (@ http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/ ).

 ADDENDUM: Was ACTUALLY missing apache packages commons-dbcp (http://commons.apache.org/dbcp/download_dbcp.cgi) and commons-pool (http://commons.apache.org/pool/download_pool.cgi) as well. These should be placed in the same directory as the mysql-connector-java.jar and this path should be reported in the appropriate place when running the fcrepo installer. Note that catalina.properties does not appear to build the CLASSPATH envvar as reported, so these files will need to be placed somewhere tomcat can access them. The obvious place is /usr/share/tomcat6/lib.

 * `cd /usr/share/tomcat6/lib`
 * `ln -s /home/fedora-user/files/commons-dbcp-1.4/commons-dbcp-1.4.jar .`
 * `ln -s /home/fedora-user/files/commons-pool-1.5.6/commons-pool-1.5.6.jar .`
 * `ln -s /home/fedora-user/files/mysql-connector-java-5.1.18/mysql-connector-java-5.1.18-bin.jar .`


 NOTE: target dir should be owned by the designated fedora user. Dir will be chmodded 766 by the installer at the beginning of the installation process.

== Custom file locations ==

fedora/server/config/akubra-llstore.cfg contains paths for the datastreamStore and objectStore. Our install stores these databases on the /mnt/rdprojects nfs partition. Similarly, the mysql databases should be in this location.

 * move mysql dbs from /var/lib/mysql to /mnt/rdprojects/fedora/mysql
 * add record to fstab: 
{{{
rdprojects:/fs1/systems/server.name /mnt/rdprojects nfs defaults,soft,nolock,_netdev 0 0 
rdprojects:/fs1/systems/server.name/data /path/to/fedora/data nfs defaults,soft,nolock,_netdev 0 0
}}}


== Reverse Proxy ==

LTU has a mildly restrictive firewall, but it is useful to have fedora on (the externally inaccessable) port 8080. The following proxy file can help.

{{{
# Settings for accessing Fedora - Placeholder.

# Don't access HTTP proxy requests
# (this is a reverse proxy, not a forward proxy)
ProxyRequests off

# Any user may connect
<Proxy *>
Order deny,allow
Allow from all
</Proxy>


# URL rewriting required to handle editor forms and work around bug in Fedora "RESTful" interface

RewriteEngine on

# Proxy other requests to Fedora listening on port 8080
# This is so we have an unmodified version of Fedora's http interface,
# alongside the modified version under /fedora-objects
<Location /fedora>
ProxyPass        http://localhost:8080/fedora
ProxyPassReverse http://localhost:8080/fedora
</Location>
}}}

== Fedora.fcfg ==

fedoraServerHost, pidNamespace, adminEmailList, and OAI profile are all contained in fedora.fcfg and need to be manually set to appropriate values for your installation.

=== Enabling JMS ===

Enabled the JMS interface so that we can listen for updates to datastreams, by editing /ands/fedora/server/config/fedora.fcfg

Changed the `//module[@class="org.fcrepo.server.messaging.MessagingModule"]/param[@name="enabled"]/@value` to "true"

=== MIME Types ===

Disabled the auto-generation of file extensions (when downloading files) by editing `/ands/fedora/server/config/fedora.fcfg` and changing the value of `/server/param[@name='datastreamExtensionMappingLabel']/@value` from "always" to "ifmissing".

(see http://code.google.com/p/ands-la-trobe/issues/detail?id=41 for requirement)

== Access Control ==

=== Embargos ===
http://fedora-commons.1317035.n2.nabble.com/fcrepo-user-Some-library-use-case-solicitations-td5683099.html

=== LDAP auth ===
https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FEDORA34/Security

=== XACML policy guide ===
https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FEDORA34/Fedora+XACML+Policy+Writing+Guide