tDAR notes
17 July 

Creating project:
  * Site based (research projects might want to approach it differently?); 
  * each site should have it’s own ID but be able to be grouped by project: check;
  * need unique project code: check;
  * clearly identify site owner and/or copyright owner

  * Should be able to give street address and/or location description for each site
  * Should be able to attach PDF of site plan?

  * Material type: duplicates in here? Is this necessary/relevant? Where to draw the line with this sort of information? Could also ask about presence/absence of major strat groups e.g. foundations, wells, cesspits, backfills, levelling fills, underfloor deposits etc.

  * The map selection seems to default to set proportions, so seems to show the project including Pyrmont etc
  * Adding people/institutions—need to ask if people are happy to be contacted
    * ... or if they want to keep their contact info confidential?
  * Investigation type needs to be customised
    * in what way?

Adding document:

  * Can we have the option of linking to a file somewhere else on the internet? Is this unstable?
  * Like inheritance values: that is great!
  * Copyright details not clear
  * Should have to check a box saying you have authority to upload the document
Can you link/import from Zotero etc (documentation says it works with zotero…?)
Adding database:
Can only add dataset creators and no room for note; would like to be able to add data editors and/or have notes field so you can identify who did each artefact class etc. 
Getting a bit tired of reinterring locations, cultural associations for each resource—cant these just be linked to the project?
Error!!! See below…
You don’t seem to be able to search within datasets??
Adding images:
These need to be linked to individual catalogue records…how is that achieved?
General concerns
Future of tDAR/Digital Antiquity:  At the end of its initial development, the organization (and tDAR) may be established as a “stand-alone” not-for-profit  organization or be incorporated into an appropriate non-profit, such as a professional association.
Lots of the help pages are semi complete…how new is this?
