#summary Notes about the functionality and usability of tDAR - what is covered already and what changes would we want to make?

Creating project:
  * Site based (research projects might want to approach it differently?); 
  * each site should have it’s own ID but be able to be grouped by project: check;
  * need unique project code: check;
  * clearly identify site owner and/or copyright owner

  * Should be able to give street address and/or location description for each site
  * Should be able to attach PDF of site plan?

  * Material type: duplicates in here? Is this necessary/relevant? Where to draw the line with this sort of information? Could also ask about presence/absence of major strat groups e.g. foundations, wells, cesspits, backfills, levelling fills, underfloor deposits etc.

  * The map selection seems to default to set proportions, so seems to show the project including Pyrmont etc
  * Adding people/institutions—need to ask if people are happy to be contacted
    * ... or if they want to keep their contact info confidential?
  * Investigation type needs to be customised
    * in what way?

Adding document:

  * Can we have the option of linking to a file somewhere else on the internet? Is this unstable?
  * Like inheritance values: that is great!
  * Copyright details not clear
  * Should have to check a box saying you have authority to upload the document
  * Can you link/import from Zotero etc (documentation says it works with zotero…?)

Adding database:
  * Would want to allow for metadata about the parties involved in the dataset: creator/editor, and to identify who did each artefact class etc. 
  * Can we streamline the process of adding locations and cultural associations for each resource so they inherit automatically from the project?

[http://code.google.com/p/ands-la-trobe/issues/detail?id=23 Error occurred when importing Access DB]

Searching within datasets. This seems to fall within "Data Integration". NB this is changing in the next tDAR version. What are the limits of this functionality at present?

Adding images:
  * These need to be linked to individual catalogue records…how is that achieved?