#summary Installation of the Digital Archaeological Record
=tDAR Install=

Source code. Adam Brin provided a tarball of the `src` folder of the `eolian` branch, but didn't include the pom.xml (Maven build file), so I downloaded it separately from their repository:
{{{
wget http://dev.tdar.org/fisheye/browse/~raw,r=2432/tDAR/branches/eolian/pom.xml
}}}

tDAR is a Java app, built with Maven. 



==Maven==

Yum appears (as of 12/7/11) to only have an ancient build of Maven available (2.0.8), and this is earlier than the minimun required version.

Downloaded Maven 2.2.1 from http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/maven/binaries/apache-maven-2.2.1-bin.tar.gz and installed manually (ln -s /bin -> usr/bin, /lib -> /var/lib/, etc).

Followed instructions at: http://dev.tdar.org/confluence/display/TDAR/deploying+tDAR up to and including the step of running the Maven build.

(When renaming the .production files, I moved any files which would have been overwritten into a "backup" folder).

==tDAR configuration==

tDAR is configured with a bunch of property files.

These have been changed as follows: 

===/ands/tDAR-install/src/main/resources/log4j.properties===
  * Replaced Adam Brin's email with Daniel's and Conal's.
  * Replaced file appender path /logs/tdar.log with /var/log/tdar/tdar.log

===/ands/tDAR-install/src/main/resources/hibernate.properties===

  * added javax.persistence.jdbc.password
  * changed hibernate.search.default.indexBase to /home/tdar/indexes

===/ands/tDAR-install/src/main/webapp/includes/googlemaps-api-key.js===

  * generated new googlemaps key at http://code.google.com/intl/en/apis/maps/signup.html
  * replaced var gmapsKey with new key

==httpd config for tDAR==

{{{
yum install httpd
chkconfig httpd on
}}}

Added a proxy configuration file at `cat /etc/httpd/conf.d/proxy.conf` to proxy from port 80 to port 8080 (where Tomcat is listening):
{{{
<Location />
ProxyPass        http://localhost:8080/   
ProxyPassReverse http://localhost:8080/   
</Location>
}}} 

==Tomcat config for tDAR==
 
To simplify repeated deployment, I wrote a Tomcat Context XML file at /usr/share/tomcat6/conf/Catalina/localhost/ROOT.xml to load the web application directly from /home/tdar/app/ROOT.war:

{{{
<Context docBase="/home/tdar/app/ROOT.war"/>
}}}

Changed tomcat user to run as "tdar" user:

 * edited /etc/tomcat6/tomcat6.conf to change TOMCAT_USER="tomcat" to TOMCAT_USER="tdar"
 * chowned /usr/share/tomcat6/* to tdar:tdar

==Crowd==
tDAR uses Atlassian "Crowd" for authentication:

http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/CROWD/Installing+Crowd+and+CrowdID OR http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/CROWD/Installing+Crowd+WAR+Distribution

Installed Postgres-server via Yum, and added the Postgre JDBC driver from http://jdbc.postgresql.org/download/postgresql-8.4-701.jdbc4.jar to /usr/share/tomcat6/lib

Followed directions at http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/CROWD/PostgreSQL for setting up database: Added user crowduser (with createdb and createuser) and database crowddb. Gave access to crowddb.`*` to crowduser.

Got WAR dist from http://www.atlassian.com/software/crowd/CrowdDownloadCenter.jspa (use the 'show all' link on the top right of the download banner). 

altered /WEB-INF/classes/crowd.properties to reflect the WAR location (/ands/crowd/crowd-home). Note that this directory SHOULD NOT be the same as the WAR root.

Created /usr/share/tomcat6/conf/Catalina/localhost/crowd.xml with the following info: 

{{{
<Context path="/crowd" docBase="/ands/crowd" reloadable="false"/>
}}}

added Javamail (from http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/index-138643.html), Java commons logging (from http://commons.apache.org/logging/download_logging.cgi) and the Java Transactional API (1.0.1B, as requested by the app, from http://download.java.net/maven/2/javax/transaction/jta/1.0.1B/) to /usr/share/tomcat6/lib/.

Access setup wizard via http://andsdb-sc18-dev.latrobe.edu.au/crowd/

Note: on running the JDBC setup, Crowd reported that the correct name for the crowd database is simply 'crowd'. I logged back in to postgres and did: 
{{{
alter table crowddb rename to crowd
}}}