#summary Technologies we've looked at but aren't using in our projects
#labels DC19

=Squire=

Squire is a user interface for depositing and editing object datastreams and metadata. It's a Java version of VALET, provided to the ARROW project as a contribution from VTLS.

In our system deposit/ingest is to be performed using a custom SWORD client talking to Fedora's SWORD server.

Metadata editing is to be done using a few custom XForms reading and writing XML data from Fedora's RESTful web service interface.

  * [http://smartech.gatech.edu/handle/1853/28459 Squire poster]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/valet/wiki/ARROW_Contribution?tm=6 VALET/Squire @ Google Code]

=Fedora Generic Search=

Need to install and configure it to index Fedora objects by selected properties of their "rif-cs" datastream so that we can search for registry objects by type and by name, and by key.

https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FCSVCS/Generic+Search+Service+2.2#GenericSearchService2.2-new22

== Notes ==

  * Work done on this by Muradora team appears to be lost with the closure of the project.
  * sourceforge page does not list the 2.2 release, despite having it available for download (http://downloads.sourceforge.net/fedora-commons/genericsearch-2.2.zip)
  * The Islandora project has a page showing how to configure gsearch to index other data streams: https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/ISLANDORA/Islandora+Guide#IslandoraGuide-GSearch

== Deployment ==

  * placed fedoragsearch.war in /usr/share/tomcat6/webapps
    * autobuilt dir structure
  * added entry to reverse proxy list (/etc/httpd/conf.d/fedoragsearch.conf)

  * changed port numbers in configvalues.xml
    * changed all instances of 8080 to 80

== Configuration ==

  After installation, configuration details can be viewed at the deployment location http://andsdb-dc19-dev.latrobe.edu.au/fedoragsearch/

  * ran ant -f configvalues.xml configOnWebServer
    * Invalid tomcat path reported. Changed configvalues.xml:
      * changed {fedora.path}/tomcat to {env.CATALINA_PATH}, reran succesfully.

== Final note ==

This system doesn't appear to work very well. Better results have been achieved by using fedora's native search over DC.