#summary A set of XProc Library functions
#labels DC19

= XProc Library =

The DC19 project uses [XProc] scripts to automate data flow. These scripts make use of a shared library of common XProc steps:

http://ands-la-trobe.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pipelines/xproc/library.xpl

The steps in this library are named with globally unique XML Qualified Names, and the namespace URI for these names is http://code.google.com/p/ands-la-trobe/wiki/XProcLibrary hence this page is the "namespace document" for those steps.

== lib:send-mail ==

Sends an email specified in the following form:
{{{
<message 
   subject="example email"
   from="sender@example.com" 
   to="addressee@example.com">
Dear Addressee,

...

Sincerely,
Sender
</message>
}}}

== lib:check-embargo ==

Checks a [FOXML] record to see whether the record can be published or whether on the contrary the record must remain embargoed. If the record is embargoed, the step throws an exception.

== lib:fedora-create-object ==

Creates a Fedora object with a specified persistent identifier. Used to create Person records in response to ingestion of a Dataset.

== lib:fedora-purge-datastream ==

Remove a datastream by name from a Fedora object.

== lib:fedora-tag-datastreams ==

Accepts a reference to a Fedora object, and an XML document defining a map between file extensions and data types. 

{{{
<map>
	<type 
		extension="vms" 
		format-uri="http://www.iso.org/iso/iso_catalogue/catalogue_tc/catalogue_detail.htm?csnumber=24269" 
		content-type="chemical/x-vamas-iso14976"/>
	<type 
		extension="dset" 
		format-uri="http://hdl.handle.net/102.100.100/6973" 
		content-type="application/x-kratos-vision-dataset"/>
	<type 
		extension="itm" 
		format-uri="http://hdl.handle.net/102.100.100/6972" 
		content-type="application/x-iontof-surfacelab-measurement"/>
</map>
}}}

The step then checks the extensions of the datastreams contained in the object, and tags them with the appropriate type information.

== lib:fedora-set-datastream-format ==

Tags a single datastream with type information.

== lib:fedora-save-datastream ==

Saves a datastream into Fedora. If the datastream exists, it is overwritten. If it does not exist, it is created.

== lib:crosswalk ==

Executes an XSLT crosswalk.

== lib:http-request ==

Helper step to make an HTTP request.

== lib:mint-handle ==

Uses a PIDS server to mint a handle for a URI.

== lib:ensure-fedora-object-has-handle ==

Checks that a Fedora object contains a datastream called "handle" and if not, mints a handle and saves the result into the object as a datastream called "handle".